---
layout: post
title: Magicode
published: true
category: fiction
---

For a long time, I have wanted to write a book.  As part of my experience teaching kids to code at [MVCode](https://www.mvcodeclub.com), I realized that it's not enough to put the tools in the hands of kids and let them go.  You have to inspire them.  I have written many articles on the value of coding, and why its important.  

But these kinds of articles are not for kids.  They are for their parents.  I wanted to write a story that inspires kids, and gets them excited about how coding can change the world.


## Magicode - Coding can change the world

So, I am writing a Young Adult Science Fiction book, called Magicode.  It is going to be about a teenage girl who uses the power of coding to change the world.

You can check out my progress at [www.magicode.world](http://www.magicode.world)

## First Time Writer

From my research online, it seems that the path of a first-time writer looks like:

* Create a concept, and pitch that to an agent or publisher
* If you are lucky, you will win a very small contract.
* More likely, be ignored
* Write the book anyway, and try and pitch again
* Get ignored, again
* Self publish via Amazon or a few other websites
* Spam your friends and co-workers on social media
* Buy some ads and try to sell the book locally
* Try again, pitch your next book....

## Publish Online First
I am mostly interested in getting people to read and interact with my writing.  

So, instead of the write-first-publish-later path, I am going to publish each chapter as I write it online, on a dedicated website.  It'll be available for free, with no sign in, or anything.  I'll set up a few social media channels to announce new content, and also make it a place for people who want to interact with me or the story. 

The downside of this path is that I am forgoing a lot of editing and rewriting, which is important for a traditional book.  

However, instead, I am going to edit during or after.  So, I may put a chapter out, and decide later that it's no longer part of the main story.  Because it's online, there's not really a problem.  Existing readers may be frustrated that the story has changed underneath them.  But, my hope is that they will also get more engaged, and give more feedback, since I will be modifying the story based on feedback from readers, as much as it is based on my own ideas.

## Web App
Rather than being a static website, I've set it up as a Rails app, and published it on heroku.  This will let me add features that make the story more interesting.  For now, though, it's very simply 3 tables in a postgres database.  Kind of overkill for a simple story, but I believe that keeping things organized is important to writing a good narrative.

## Stay Updated
Follow our Twitter account [@magicode_world](https://twitter.com/magicode_world) to get updated whenever a new chapter is released.
